# Setting Up

The [matchmaker](../spec/matchmaker/01_concepts.md) module is responsible for bringing interested players together based on their preferences, forming teams and starting the game. To dive into the inner workings of the module, jump over to that section in the spec. This section instead will take a high level view of how the game is set up.

## Rooms

Rook requires at least two players to start. Their are two formats for organising a game: private and public. With private games, any player can host a game with whatever custom settings of their choosing and invited players can join the room. When a quorum have joined a timer will begin to allow any late stragglers to enter the room before the game automatically starts. Public games on the otherhand have no host, rather, people look for a room based on a set menu of predefined settings called modes. One mode could describe a game with 4 players, another could describe a game with 100.

## Seeds and Randomness

Part of initiating a game is to select a seed. There are two forms of random in Rook: config specified random and global random. Each `Config` allows the host (or the matchamker in public games) to insert a seed that will be used to generate the map. Players that want a rematch can simply use the seed to regenerate the same map. The global random can not be chosen by any single user and is collectively generated by the active users in the network. It is used predominantly for the quasi-random generation of in-game relics and so therefore should't be allowed to be manipulated.

## Starting Conditions

Players can start off alone or in teams of a specified number. The `Config` also dictates the initial resources each faction begins with and the size and composition of the map. Each faction starts out with a single capital settlement and a predefined population.

## Modes

On-chain governance can allow for the creation and removal of game modes. Users can propose a certain game mode they enjoyed and if it gets voted in it will be added to the menu of possible modes to choose from. Having too many game modes can be a problem as it becomes less likely that people pick the same mode and thus more likely that people have to wait longer before their game starts.
